# PKU_ICS-fall2022

This repository provides some course materials for Introduction to Computer Systems (ICS) in PKU (fall, 2022), including slides, labs and exams. The contents of each folder are described as follow.

- slides: All the slides used in large class teaching (fall, 2022) are included. This can provide convenience for student who wants to read through before class or take notes on the slides during class.
- labs: Six labs done in PKU's ICS (fall, 2022) course, including datalab, archlab, cachelab, shelllab (or called tshlab), malloclab and proxylab. You can find writeup, handout and my solutions in the folder. Since bomblab and attacklab are online projects and you should finish them on class machines instead of on your own PC, this folder didn't provide the handouts and solutions for them. Another version of bomblab and attacklab (from CMU) will provide in "labs from cmu". An annoying thing is that these labs will be modified almost each year, depends on the TAs that year. This year, we met a new trace in shelllab and a confusing https trace in proxylab. Besides, we met a more difficult version of malloclab. That's what PKU like, isn't it? :( Besides, here are something you should know:
  - In malloclab, your "throughput" score will depends on the performance of the machine. The performance of autolab is as same as that of classmachine, which is always a lot weaker than your own PC. **So, if you are taking ICS in PKU, I strongly suggest you finish malloclab on classmachine.**
  - In proxylab, sometimes you may met unstable scores in "realpages" if you are working on class machine. Besides, some failure in "realpages" may caused by unstable network connections. **So, if you believe your code is correct, try to hand it in autolab, the score might be different. **
  - **My solutions are only for reference. I am not responsible for any consequence caused by improper use of my solutions, including but not limited to copy my solution and hand in.**
- labs from cmu: I provide a self-learn writeup and handout for bomblab and attacklab, which is from the website of CS:APP (http://csapp.cs.cmu.edu/). You can finish them on your own PC. I didn't write down the solutions for this version of bomblab and attacklab. Instead, you can refer to the following links:
  - bomblab: https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/472178808
  - attacklab: https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/476396465
- midterm exam: The problems and solutions for midterm exams of ICS in PKU, from year 2012 to year 2022. The problems and solutions for midterm exam of ICS (fall, 2022) were not found. **You should keep in mind that there may be many problems which are confusing, disgusting, meaningless, or even have serious errors. As a result, when you are working on these problems, you should always distinguish them carefully.**
- final exam: The problems and solutions for midterm exams of ICS in PKU, from year 2012 to year 2022. The problems and solutions for final exam of ICS (fall, 2022 and fall, 2012), and the solutions for final exam of ICS (fall, 2017) were not found. **You should keep in mind that there may be many problems which are confusing, disgusting, meaningless, or even have serious errors. As a result, when you are working on these problems, you should always distinguish them carefully.**

I sincerely hope that this repository can help you pull through when having course Introduction to Computer Systems in PKU. Besides, I hope the quality of ICS in PKU can be improved in a near future.
